# bl0ck_v0: A Pseudo Blockchain API

> ## About
> The project aims to create an illusion of a blockchain & in no way represents any existing public, private, consortium or hybrid blockchain network.
> - Pseudo Blockchain implies a completely user-controlled blockchain which runs locally & mimics the general functionality of an actual blockchain
> by allowing block generation, and viewing the blocks generated.
> - It even allows the user to drop the entire list of the blocks generated by deleting the `blockchain_data.json` file to start afresh.
> - The project provides various API calls to perform the various Basic and Dynamic operations associated solely with it. 
 
## Basic Operations
The project implements blockchain API to allow one to perform the following basic operations:
- Add a new block
- View the last block added
- View all the blocks added
- Stores the blocks added into a JSON file called blockchain_data.json
---

> **_NOTE_** *Currently, the project utilizes Python's `hashlib` library to implement `SHA256` algorithm to hash the generated blocks.*

---

## Dynamic Operations
Apart from the above mentioned-existing basic operations-analogous to an actual blockchain, the project also implements the following dynamic operations:
- Toggle DDM (Dynamic Difficulty Mode): Allows one to change the difficulty, either automatically by default or manually.

---

> **_NOTE_** *To begin setup and eventually test the project, clone the entire project and refer to the [`README.md`](https://github.com/Aryaman47/bl0ck_v0/blob/main/backend/README.md) in the `backend/` repository.*

---

### DDM (Dynamic Difficulty Mode) 
This modes allows the provides the following functionalities:
- Toggle between DDM or SM {Standard Mode (Non-DDM)}.
- In SM, the difficulty: 1 & Nonce: 0 (by default).
- After enabling DDM (`difficulty` auto-increments by default),
    1. It starts at `difficulty = 2` and increments with each new block added.
    2. Difficulty can be set manually, **inclusively between 1 to 10**.
    3. Using `set-manual`, the `difficulty` halts at the `set-manual = {customValue}` until `switch-to-auto` is called.
    5. The `switch-to-auto` allows to **revert back to auto-increment mode** from manual-difficulty mode.
    6. `Timeout = 60 secs` (by default) and hence **can be modified**.


